So let's start with
the category of APIs now,
talking about sensors,
geolocation, and input devices.
So this is a suite of APIs
that we will cover now.
Let's start with sensors.
So first, what's a sensor?
A sensor is a chipset that is available
in one particular device that
is measuring something, okay?
So we have different kinds of
sensors today on different devices.
But talking about the API first, we will
have different APIs and different sensors.
So mostly on mobile devices,
we have a lot of sensors.
Typically, we have
an accelerometer on three axes.
The accelerometer is a sensor
that is sensing acceleration.
Question for you.
Do I have acceleration right now?
In this phone?
>> Yes.
Which acceleration?
>> Down.
>> Gravity.
Down on one axis.
If I have the phone upside down.
It's on the same axis but negative value.
And based on where I am,
that's acceleration.
Sometimes you can ask for
acceleration, removing the gravity.
So sometimes some API's
will let you do that.
So you can get the gravity or not, but
you can also go over the gravity so
you can actually move it harder,
you can apply more force to it, and
you can read that with JavaScript.
That actually was, after geolocation,
probably the next API that
appear in history on the web,
how to read the accelerometer.
So why do you wanna use the accelerometer?
We will see some examples in a minute.
But typically some effects to know
how the user is using the phone.
Because you can know, for
example, if you are like this,
you can know if you are maybe laying
down a bed looking at the phone because
the gravity is different on different axes
based on how are you using your phone and
based on that you can
change something in your app.
Gyroscope that's another sensor I think on
the iPhone, it was the iPhone 4 or 3GS.
I don't remember now,
the first one that added gyroscope.
With gyroscope we can know how
do we have the phone like this?
In this case, the force is the same
on one axis, the same force, but
I'm changing the angle, okay?
Something that I'm simplifying this.
But with gyroscope we can
also read the values.
On accelerometer,
we get three axes, X, Y, and Z.
And the current value of
acceleration on each axis.
On gyroscope, we typically get alpha,
beta and gamma.
Also three values for gyroscope.
We also have magnetometer
that is kind of the compass.
Okay, so it's also a sensor.
It's not typically something that comes
with a GPS or something like that.
It's a different sensor.
Okay, so if you have a compass app in
your phone, it's using the magnetometer.
And you can read that
also in your website.
Proximity sensor.
A proximity sensor will detect if
you have the phone like this, or
if I have the phone like that,
it knows proximity to the user.
Because, I mean, if it's a game, and then
you realize that the user is doing this,
you should pause the game probably.
It depends on the game but
that's the proximity sensor.
Light sensor.
So the light sensor will
measure the light in looks and
it will detect how much light
do you have in the room.
So based on that, for example,
you can change the theme color,
okay, things like that.
So you can swap from dark to light or
something like that
because you can read that.
And there are more, so more are applying.
These are the ones that are currently
available on the web, but
now you have humidity sensors as well,
okay?
On some devices, on Samsung devices,
they have a humidity sensor.
Altimeter, the iPhone has an altimeter,
also the watch.
That's how we can measure if you're
using a stairs, if you're climbing.
So those are the sensors and you need
to pick which sensors do you want,
do you need and there are typically
two ways to consume them on the web.
So we started with the first API.
This is kind of the weird,
because we have two ways not one.
We have all API's that actually
were kinda created by Apple.
Okay, and
the rest Chrome basically cloned them.
So Safari was the one that was
pushing the boundaries are the time.
I'm talking about 2009
something like that and
in this case we are talking
about DOM APIs.
I will show you the code in a minute and
this is the only API available
still today on iPhones, okay?
So if you wanna do this on iPhones,
you'd still need to use the old API's.
But also we have another API called
sensor or generic sensor API
that is a new API promise based so
it's not just the DOM event,
the global DOM event but
it's not yet in Safari.
Will it be?
Who knows, okay?
It's not today,
I didn't see it in the words, right?
They should implement because if they have
the old API, I mean, they're close to that.